remove field notes from documentation and add suggester tool text (#371)
microbiomedata/docs: content/home/src/howto_guides/submit2nmdc.md

[![](../_static/images/howto_guides/portal_guide/2025-05_Suggester.png)](../_static/images/howto_guides/portal_guide/2025-05_Suggester.png)

> This tool provides suggested metadata based on other information provided. It can be triggered or run automatically and suggestions can be accepted individually or in bulk. This tool currently suggests an elevation value, based on the provided latitude and longitude metadata. When the submission author submits metadata this tool recommmends metadata terms that are potentially relevant to the submission author's submissions and samples, as well as recommended values to complete submission author metadata. This tool is built and uses the submission material provided to make suggestions. The materials include DOIs to publications or data packages, the study description and links. This powerful tool minimizes the mental load on the submission author and still allows for the control of details and content. Once materials are provided and the submission author reviews the AI suggested metadata, the submission author can opt to use the suggested values or dismiss the recommendations. This tool will be expanded to other metadata fields and the NMDC welcomes your feedback and suggestions. This can be provided via the [We are here to help](#we-are-here-to-help) tab.

Reviewer: - Added comma after `When the submission author submits metadata`
- Fixed typo in `recommends`
- Removed `is built and`
- Changed `materials include` to `material includes` (since previous sentence also uses the singular form, `material`)
- Changed `DOIs to publications or data packages` to `DOIs of publications and data packages` (to -> of; and or -> and)

```suggestion
This tool provides suggested metadata based on other information provided. It can be triggered or run automatically and suggestions can be accepted individually or in bulk. This tool currently suggests an elevation value, based on the provided latitude and longitude metadata. When the submission author submits metadata, this tool recommends metadata terms that are potentially relevant to the submission author's submissions and samples, as well as recommended values to complete submission author metadata. This tool uses the submission material provided to make suggestions. The material includes DOIs of publications and data packages, the study description and links. This powerful tool minimizes the mental load on the submission author and still allows for the control of details and content. Once materials are provided and the submission author reviews the AI suggested metadata, the submission author can opt to use the suggested values or dismiss the recommendations. This tool will be expanded to other metadata fields and the NMDC welcomes your feedback and suggestions. This can be provided via the [We are here to help](#we-are-here-to-help) tab.
```

Reviewer: I found this paragraph a little difficult to read. I recommend copy/pasting the text into https://speedreadr.com/readability-checker-results/, clicking "Calculate Readability", clicking on the "Highlighted Text" tab, scrolling down to "Improvement suggestions", and considering those. Here is what they are for this paragraph:

<img width="977" height="242" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/afc6a879-019f-492a-884b-32eb98c6a950" />
